---
layout: page
tags: [Keymanager]
page_title: Introduction into Keymanager
---

# Introduction into Keymanager

In this article, the basic concept of OpenStack Barbican key manager explained.
this includes the uses and options.

## Introduction

To protect your data in a public cloud encryption becomes more important every
day. One could think of encrypting traffic between clients and servers with
https, encrypting volumes or just encrypting valuable key/value pairs.
OpenStack Barbican provides a REST API designed for the secure storage,
provisioning and management of secrets such as passwords, encryption keys and
X.509 Certificates.

---

## Use cases
Although the OpenStack key manager can be used to store secrets and raw binary
data, it is most used to store Symmetric Keys, Asymmetric Keys and Certificates
for other OpenStack services to use.

### HTTPS Load balancer
With OpenStack Octavia, it is possible to create a high available load
balancer. To allow the load balancer to encrypt http traffic with certificates,
both private keys, intermediate and server certificates can be stored in
barbican to be accessed by Octavia. On the creation, restart or update of an
Octavia load balancer with terminated https, Octavia will request the
certificates from Barbican.

### Encrypted volumes
We can use Barbican to manage Block storage (cinder) encryption keys. LUKS is
used to encrypt the data on the disks attached to your instances. The keys for
the disk encryption are automatically generated by cinder and securely stored
in barbican. When attaching an encrypted volume to an instance, nova retrieves
the key from barbican and provides it to the compute proces on the compute
node. [Create a volume]({{ '/articles/create-a-volume' | relative_url }})

## Inner workings
Just like most OpenStack projects, barbican can be used with an API. The
barbican API can be used to store and retreive secrets. When providing barbican
with a secret for example a private key, barbican will encrypt the keys before
storing them in a database. The encryption for the secrets is
configurable through plugins and most cloud providers use Hardware Security
Modules (or HSMs) to securely protects your cryptographic keys, but at the same
time makes them easily accessible. When retrieved, barbican will decrypt the
secrets and provide them to you or the service requesting the secrets.
Barbican makes use of OpenStack Keystone to validate if a user is allowed to
store and retrieve secrets.

---

## Conclusion
A keymanager can be an essential part to protect your cloud infrastructure.
The OpenStack barbican keymanager service provides secure storage, provisioning
and management of secrets, such as passwords, encryption keys, etc.

